Thereupon those hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Bodhisattvas equal to the dust-atoms of a macrocosm, who had issued from the gaps of the earth, all stretched their joined hands towards the Lord, and said unto him: We, O Lord, will, after the complete extinction of the Tathgata, promulgate this Dharmaparyya everywhere (or on every occasion) in all Buddha-fields of the Lord, wherever (or whenever) the Lord shall be completely extinct [Hence follows that Nirvna is repeatedly entered into by the Lord]. We are anxious to obtain this sublime Dharmaparyya, O Lord, in order to keep, read, publish, and write it. Thereupon the hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Bodhisattvas, headed by Magusr; the monks, nuns, male and female lay devotees living in this world; the gods, Ngas, goblins, Gandharvas, demons, Garudas, Kinnaras, great serpents, men, and beings not human, and the many Bodhisattvas Mahsattvas equal to the sands of the river Ganges, said unto the Lord: We also, O Lord, will promulgate this Dharmaparyya after the complete extinction of the Tathgata. While standing with an invisible body in the sky, O Lord, we will send forth a voice, and plant the roots of goodness of such creatures as have not (yet) planted roots of goodness. Then the Lord addressed the Bodhisattva Mahasattva Visishtakritra, followed by a troop, a great troop, the master of a troop, who was the very first of those afore-mentioned Bodhisattvas Mahsattvas followed by a troop, a great troop, masters of a troop: Very well, Visishtakritra, very well; so you should do; it is for the sake of this Dharmaparyya that the Tathgata has brought you to ripeness. Thereupon the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c., and the wholly extinct Lord Prabhtaratna, the Tathgata, &c., both seated on the throne in the centre of the Stpa, commenced smiling to one another, and from their opened mouths stretched out their tongues, so that with their tongues they reached the Brahma-world, and from those two tongues issued many hundred thousand myriads of kotis of rays. From each of those rays issued many hundred thousand myriads of kotis of Bodhisattvas, with gold-coloured bodies and possessed of the thirty-two characteristic signs of a great man, and seated on thrones consisting of the interior of lotuses. Those Bodhisattvas spread in all directions in hundred thousands of worlds, and while on every side stationed in the sky preached the law. Just as the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c., produced a miracle of magic by his tongue, so, too, Prabhtaratna, the Tathgata, &c., and the other Tathgatas, &c., who, having flocked from hundred thousands of myriads of kolis of other worlds, were seated on thrones at the foot of jewel trees, by their tongues produced a miracle of magic. The Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c., and all those Tathgatas, &c., produced that magical effect during fully a thousand years. After the lapse of that millennium those Tathgatas, &c., pulled back their tongue, and all simultaneously, at the same moment, the same instant, made a great noise as of expectoration and of snapping the fingers, by which sounds all the hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Buddha-fields in every direction of space were moved, removed, stirred, wholly stirred, tossed, tossed forward, tossed along, and all beings in all those Buddha-fields, gods, Ngas, goblins, Gandharvas, demons, Garudas, Kinnaras, great serpents, men, and beings not human beheld, by the power of the Buddha, from the place where they stood, this Saha-world. They beheld the hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Tathgatas seated severally on their throne at the foot of a jewel tree, and the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c., and the Lord Prabhtaratna, the Tathgata, &c., wholly extinct, sitting on the throne in the centre of the Stpa of magnificent precious substances, along with the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c.; they beheld, finally, those four classes of the audience. At this sight they felt struck with wonder, amazement, and rapture. And they heard a voice from the sky calling: Worthies, beyond a distance of an immense, incalculable number of hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of worlds there is the world named Saha; there the Tathgata called Skyamuni, the Arhat, &c., is just now revealing to the Bodhisattvas Mahasattvas the Dharmaparyya of the Lotus of the True Law, a Strnta of great extent, serving to instruct Bodhisattvas, and belonging in proper to all Buddhas. Ye accept it joyfully with all your heart, and do homage to the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, &c., and the Lord Prabhtaratna, the Tathgata, &c. On hearing such a voice from the sky all those beings exclaimed from the place where they stood, with joined hands: Homage to the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata. Then they threw towards the Saha-world various flowers, incense, fragrant wreaths, ointment, gold, cloth, umbrellas, flags, banners, and triumphal streamers, as well as ornaments, parures, necklaces, gems and jewels of all sorts, in order to worship the Lord Skyamuni, the Tathgata, and this Dharmaparyya of the Lotus of the True Law. Those flowers, incense, &c., and those necklaces, &c., came down upon this Saha-world, where they formed a great canopy of flowers hanging in the sky above the Tathgatas there sitting, as well as those in the hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of other worlds. Thereupon the Lord addressed the Bodhisattvas Mahasattvas headed by Visishtakritra: Inconceivable, young men of good family, is the power of the Tathgatas, &c. In order to transmit this Dharmaparyya, young men of good family, I might go on for hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of ons explaining the manifold virtues of this Dharmaparyya through the different principles of the law, without reaching the end of those virtues. In this Dharmaparyya I have succinctly taught all Buddha-laws (or Buddha-qualities), all the superiority, all the mystery, all the profound conditions of the Buddhas. Therefore, young men of good family, you should, after the complete extinction of the Tathgata, with reverence keep, read, promulgate, cherish, worship it. And wherever on earth, young men of good family, this Dharmaparyya shall be made known, read, written, meditated, expounded, studied or collected into a volume, be it in a monastery or at home, in the wilderness or in a town, at the foot of a tree or in a palace, in a building or in a cavern, on that spot one should erect a shrine in dedication to the Tathgata. For such a spot must be regarded as a terrace of enlightenment; such a spot must be regarded as one where all Tathgatas &c. have arrived at supreme, perfect enlightenment; on that spot have all Tathgatas moved forward the wheel of the law; on that spot one may hold that all Tathgatas have reached complete extinction. And on that occasion the Lord uttered the following stanzas: 1. Inconceivable is the power to promote the weal of the world possessed by those who, firmly established in transcendent knowledge, by means of their unlimited sight display their magic faculty in order to gladden all living beings on earth. 2. They extend their tongue over the whole world, darting thousands of beams to the astonishment of those to whom this effect of magic is displayed and who are making for supreme enlightenment. 3. The Buddhas made a noise of expectoration and of snapping the fingers, (and by it) called the attention of the whole world, of all parts of the world in the ten directions of space. 4. Those and other miraculous qualities they display in their benevolence and compassion (with the view) that the creatures, gladly excited at the time, may (also) keep the Stra after the complete extinction of the Sugata. 5. Even if I continued for thousands of kotis of ons speaking the praise of those sons of Sugata who shall keep this eminent Stra after thc extinction of the Leader of the world, 6. I should not have terminated the enumeration of their qualities; inconceivable as the qualities of infinite space are the merits of those who constantly keep this holy Stra. 7. They behold me as well as these chiefs, and the Leader of the world now extinct; (they behold) all these numerous Bodhisattvas and the four classes. 8. Such a one now here propitiates me and all these leaders, as well as the extinct chief of Ginas and the others in every quarter. 9. The future and past Buddhas stationed in the ten points of space will all be seen and worshipped by him who keeps this Stra. 10. He who keeps this Stra, the veritable law, will fathom the mystery of the highest man; will soon comprehend what truth it was that was arrived at on the terrace of enlightenment. 11. The quickness of his apprehension will be unlimited; like the wind he will nowhere meet impediments; he knows the purport and interpretation of the law, he who keeps this exalted Stra. 12. He will, after some reflection, always find out the connection of the Stras spoken by the leaders; even after the complete extinction of the leader he will grasp the real meaning of the Stras. 13. He resembles the moon and the sun; he illuminates all around him, and while roaming the earth in different directions he rouses many Bodhisattvas. 14. The wise Bodhisattvas who, after hearing the enumeration of such advantages, shall keep this Stra after my complete extinction will doubtless reach enlightenment. 
