Thereupon the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Bhaishagyarga rose from his seat, and having put his upper robe upon one shoulder and fixed the right knee upon the ground lifted his joined hands up to the Lord and said: How great, O Lord, is the pious merit which will be produced by a young man of good family or a young lady who keeps this Dharmaparyya of the Lotus of the True Law, either in memory or in a book? Whereupon the Lord said to the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Bhaishagyarga: Suppose, Bhaishagyarga, that some man of good family or a young lady honours, respects, reveres, worships hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Tathgatas equal to the sands of eighty Ganges rivers; dost thou think, Bhaishagyarga, that such a young man or young lady of good family will on that account produce much pious merit? The Bodhisattva Bhaishagyarga replied: Yes, Lord; yes, Sugata. The Lord said: I announce to thee, Bhaishagyarga, I declare to thee: any young man or young lady of good family, Bhaishagyarga, who shall keep, read, comprehend, and in practice follow, were it but a single stanza from this Dharmaparyya of the Lotus of the True Law, that young man or young lady of good family, Bhaishagyarag-a, will on that account produce far more pious merit. Then the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Bhaishagyarga immediately said to the Lord: To those young men or young ladies of good family, O Lord, who keep this Dharmaparyya of the Lotus of the True Law in their memory or in a book, we will give talismanic words for guard, defence, and protection; such as, anye manye mane mamane kitte karite same, samitvi, snte, mukte, muktatame, same avishame, samasame, gaye, kshaye, akshine, snte san, dhrani lokabhshe, pratyavekshani, nidhini, abhyantaravisishte, utkule mutkule, asade, parade, suknksh, asamasame, buddhavilokite, dharmaparikshite, sanghanirghoshani, nirghoshan bhaybhayasodhan, mantre mantrkshayate, rutakausalye, akshaye, akshavanatya, vakule valoda, amanyatya. These words of charms and spells, O Lord, have been pronounced by reverend Buddhas (in number) equal to the sands of sixty-two Ganges rivers. All these Buddhas would be offended by any one who would attack such preachers, such keepers of the Strnta. The Lord expressed his approval to the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Bhaishagyarga by saying: Very well, Bhaishagyarga, by those talismanic words being pronounced out of compassion for creatures, the common weal of creatures is promoted; their guard, defence, and protection is secured. Thereupon the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Pradnasra said unto the Lord: I also, O Lord, will, for the benefit of such preachers, give them talismanic words, that no one seeking for an occasion to surprise such preachers may find the occasion, be it a demon, giant, goblin, sorcerer, imp or ghost; that none of these when seeking and spying for an occasion to surprise may find the occasion. And then the Bodhisattva Mahsattva Pradnasra instantly pronounced the following words of a spell: gvale mahgvale, ukke mukke, ade advati, tritye trityvati, itini vitini kitini, tritti trityvati svh. These talismanic words, O Lord, have been pronounced and approved by Tathgatas, &c. (in number) equal to the sands of the river Ganges. All those Tathgatas would be offended by any one who would attack such preachers. Thereupon Vaisravana, one of the four rulers of the cardinal points, said unto the Lord: I also, O Lord, will pronounce talismanic words for the benefit and weal of those preachers, out of compassion to them, for their guard, defence, and protection : atte natte vanatte anade, ndi kunadi svh .With these spells, O Lord, I shall guard those preachers over an extent of a hundred yoganas. Thus will those young men or young ladies of good family, who keep this Strnta, be guarded, be safe. At that meeting was present Virdhaka, another of the four rulers of the cardinal points, sitting surrounded and attended by hundred thousands of myriads of kotis of Kumbhndas. He rose from his seat, put his upper robe upon one shoulder, lifted his joined hands up to the Lord, and spoke to him as follows: I also, O Lord, will pronounce talismanic words for the benefit of people at large, and to guard, defend, protect such preachers as are qualified, who keep the Strntas mentioned; viz. agane gane gauri gandhri kandli mtangi pukkasi sankule vrsali svh. These talismanic words, O Lord, have been pronounced by forty-two hundred thousand myriads of kotis of Buddhas. All those Buddhas would be offended by any one who would attack such preachers as are qualified. Thereupon the giantesses called Lamb,Vilamb, Ktadant, Pushpadant, Makutadant, Kesin, Akal, Mldhar, Kunt, Sarvasattvogahr, and Hrt, all with their children and suite went up to the place where the Lord was, and with one voice said unto him: We also, O Lord, will afford guard, defence, and protection to such preachers as keep this Strnta; we will afford them safety, that no one seeking for an occasion to surprise those preachers may find the occasion. And the giantesses all simultaneously and in a chorus gave to the Lord the following words of spells: iti me, iti me, iti me, iti me, iti me; nime nime nime nime nime; ruhe ruhe ruhe ruhe ruhe; stuhe stuhe stuhe stuhe stuhe, svh. No one shall overpower and hurt such preachers; no goblin, giant, ghost, devil, imp, sorcerer, spectre, gnome; no spirit causing epilepsy, no sorcerer of goblin race, no sorcerer of not-human race, no sorcerer of human race; no sorcerer producing tertian ague, quartian ague, quotidian ague. Even if in his dreams he has visions of women, men, boys or girls, it shall be impossible that they hurt him. And the giantesses simultaneously and in a chorus addressed the Lord with the following stanzas: 1. His head shall be split into seven pieces, like a sprout of Symplocos Racemosa, who after hearing this spell would attack a preacher. 2. He shall go the way of parricides and matricides, who would attack a preacher. 3. He shall go the way of oil-millers and sesamum-pounders, who would attack a preacher. 4. He shall go the way of those who use false weights and measures, who would attack a preacher. Thereafter the giantesses headed by Kunt said unto the Lord: We also, O Lord, will afford protection to such preachers; we will procure them safety; we will protect them against assault and poison. Whereupon the Lord said to those giantesses : Very well, sisters, very well; you do well in affording guard, defence, and protection to those preachers, even to such who shall keep no more than the name of this Dharmaparyya; how much more then to those who shall keep this Dharmaparyya wholly and entirely, or who, possessing the text of it in a volume, honour it with flowers, incense, fragrant garlands, ointment, powder, cloth, flags, banners, lamps with sesamum oil, lamps with scented oil, lamps with Kampaka-scented oil, with Vrshikascented oil, with lotus-scented oil, with jasminescented oil; who by such-like manifold hundred thousand manners of worshipping shall honour, respect, revere, venerate (this Stra), deserve to be guarded by thee and thy suite, Kunt! And while this chapter on spells was being expounded, sixty-eight thousand living beings received the faculty of acquiescence in the law that has no origin. 
